Okay,
guys.
In the last lecture,
we looked at the one of the limits of the look up.
Inasmuch as it can only read data from the right of the column you're looking up from and
they're in.
This lecture is going to be a very simplified version of how you do the opposite thing.
You look up a column in the rice and you read data from a column to the left of it.
Now,
as I said before,
you can actually do this with the look up.
But what you can do is combine to other functions in Excel to make this happen.
So we're gonna look at those functions very quickly here on we'll look at them individually
first,
and then we'll look at how you combine them to perform this feat.
OK,
so the first thing we're going to do is just type of value in this cell here that we want
to find and what we're gonna type is Let's take Katie.
Yeah,
Kate Inc can't anti.
I eat.
Okay,
so this is gonna be a look of value now,
the first function we're going to use his match.
Their match does exactly what you would think it would do so We're gonna type equals match
open brackets on.
I will look at value,
just as with the V.
Look up is the first argument.
So we're just gonna cook that?
So we're now looking up.
Katie Comma.
The look up array is the column where that value is going to appear in your data Sable.
So that's going to be here in column A.
And it sells a three through 87 Okay,
So,
comma.
And the next thing we want to tell it is the match time we're looking for.
They were looking to get an exact match because we want to find Katie precisely in that
column.
So we're just gonna type zero and close the brackets and then hit Enter.
Okay.
Now,
what you can see has been returned.
Is number three on because we only work in a small dates table.
It's very easy to work out.
Why that is what matches done is it's looked for the value.
Katie in this section of data here on what it's done is said 123 I offend the value,
Katie at line three in the data.
So for you,
it's a type pool.
We can probably Yes,
that the answer would be four.
So Okay,
there's the first part of our formula the match function.
So all we're going to use the match section for is to find out the row number in the data
sent that we're looking at.
Okay,
So far,
so good.
Now,
the next thing we're gonna have a look at is the index.
So we're gonna tell you index open brackets on this time.
It says array.
We're just looking at the top one.
They're there to functions for index or two ways to use it.
We're just going to stick with the 1st 1 So array is the data table or the data array.
I have no idea why they don't call it the same thing consistently,
but there you go.
So the array is our full data set,
So we're going to select a three down to be seven.
OK,
so that's our array,
comma,
that the road number we want to have a look at doesn't really matter as long as it doesn't
exceed our data set.
So,
from there,
what just going to say is I wanna look at rule number one.
Come on.
I want to look a column number one on the closer brackets and hit Enter.
They can see that what's happened.
What this function does is it returns the value from the array,
which is a three through B seven.
This here and it's returned the value found in Row one and Column one.
So the Intersect of Row one and column one has returned Allen now.
Similarly,
if we were to say,
Row three and his center,
you can see that we get Katie because we're on Row three,
but we're still in column one.
So if we wanted to return the value from Row three column to with just enter three comma to
enter on a go would get blunt.
Now,
the trick in combining these two functions together to be able to look up from the left.
It's so know that the match function returns the row number.
That's this one here,
the row number that we want to use in the index.
So let's combine the two.
So let's say for arguments sake,
we wanted to find out who has Blonde has a look of value,
is going to be blonde,
and I'm just going to call it out in there.
So we know that's the cell we're referencing,
right?
Hold on T hat's because this is where it gets a little more tricky,
but hopefully you'll understand it as we work through.
So the first part of our function is going to be index.
You'll remember from before that the array is the full data set.
So that's a three through a seven.
So now we've covered off our array comma,
that the next thing we want to enter is the row number.
But rather than entering a row number,
what we're gonna do is look up a value using this match function to find out which road
this particular value lives,
that so we're gonna type match open brackets.
Our look at value is blonde,
just as we use before when we use the match function on its own comma.
Look,
A parade is the column in our data set where that word will appear.
So blonde appears in the second column.
Some highlight in B three through B seven common.
I want to find an exact match because I want to find the word blonde.
Precisely.
I'm gonna close the brackets.
And now we have our said the rope part of the index formula.
So the row argument is now completed.
So it's gonna look for blonde and work all its way down and return the value off blood,
which will be one to three comma now,
because the index is the full data array a three through B seven.
What we want to do is return the value from the first column,
which is column one,
and I'm gonna close the brackets on Hit.
Enter.
So there you go there.
We can see if we look up the value blonde.
We return Katie because it's now looked down here,
phone blonde and successfully looked over to the left to return the value off Katie.
So let's just try that again.
So let's type black on.
We can know.
See if we look down our column to hear on.
Look left.
John has black hair.
Okay,
Hopefully you followed that.
If not,
watch it through a couple of times,
it takes a little while to get your head around it,
but it's very simple.
Once you've mastered it,
we can have a look at it in action in the next lecture.
So I'll see you there